the presence of the island should became
plane topper at the very tip of Far
North Queensland a sugarcane farmers
shaking in their boots this is because
the plant topic carries a disease that
could devastate the Australian sugar
industry the industry needs to be
protected but how well there's a new
idea to science called metapopulation
theory and is proving very useful if
controlling pests is the aim of the game
especially when pests live in islands
like our plant of it does so let's take
a closer look the Torres Strait Islands
are between Papua New Guinea and
northern Queensland the plant hoppers
living in PNG are out of control but
it's a different story in the Torres
Strait all the plant hoppers on one
Island are called a population there are
over 200 islands in the Torres Strait
some have populations on them some don't
but taken together all these populations
are called
a meta population most of the time each
population is happy doing its own thing
but sometimes hey bro then you're decent
chicks in this joint I'm addict yeah
you're coming or what the movement of
plant hoppers between populations is
called migration now some populations
are more exciting than others they are
always big there is lots of breeding but
there is a downside so there tends to be
lots of migration away sometimes during
a migration the plant hoppers take a
wrong turn and end up on an island where
no plant hoppers have ever lived before
this is called colonization some
populations are really small so small
that Oh dying dying dead this is called
local extinction migration colonization
and local extinction are the three
essential metapopulation theory
processes and are the key to controlling
the plant over in the Torres Strait
identifying and removing their big
populations
removing the migration without migration
there is no colonization and small
populations relying on migration for
survival will go extinct therefore total
meta population extinction can be
achieved creating a plan topper free
buffer zone in the Torres Strait well
there you have it by applying meta
population theory the Australian sugar
industry can be predicted from
devastation
by the island sugarcane plant of Earth
and the disease it can carry and quite
frankly right now meta population theory
is definitely